---
title: Yr7 Hardware and Software
layout: post
author: joshua.massey
permalink: /yr7-hardware-and-software/
source-id: 1Sl4RULnrPvApz8tjigRI4WW9AyTej8Okopu-h_zNBKE
published: true
---
Storage- 

SSD (Solid- State Drive)

A SSD has no moving  mechanical parts. This makes it different from the traditional electromechanical magnetic disks like HDD's that contain spinning disks and moving read and write heads. SSD’s are more resistant to physical shock than other disks. They run silently and have a lower access time.

 HDD (Hard Disk Drive)

This a data storage device used for storing and retrieving digital information. It has 1 Terabyte of data and was introduced by IBM in 1956. They became the dominant secondary storage device in the early 1960's. 

Memory- RAM

RAM is a fast temporary memory system which stores programs, applications and data. If your computer loses power all your RAM memory is lost.

Processor- CPU (Central Processing Unit)

The CPU is commonly referred to as 'the Brain' of a computer. It is in charge of executing a sequence of stored instructions called a program. CPU’s are not only found in laptops and computers. Many devices rely on hem including mobile phones, DVD’s and washing machine’s.

Peripheral

A peripheral is a device that receives or gives data to a CPU. They can be either an external or internal device.

Input

Input device allow you to enter Raw data into a computer. Then the computer processes the data and produces outputs that you can understand using an output device. Input devices include a concert keyboard, a trackball, a joystick, digital camera, microphone and a scanner.

Output  

Common output formats are printed papers, sound, videos and On-Screen documents. These let the computer communicate with the user. Here are some output devices. A monitor, printers, speakers and projectors.

Virus

A virus is used and designed to harm another person's device. It is a simple program that can duplicate and attach to different files. The amount of damage depends on the virus. There are tens of thousands of viruses. You can get a virus by downloading files that are usually on an e-mail.

Worm

Worms are difficult to get rid of. They copy themselves and attach to external storage devices and general external devices.

Trojan

Trojans starts by pretending to be a trusted file, but gives unauthorised access to your computer when you run it.

BOTNET/ ZOMBIE NET

This is a series of internet computers that used to transmit spam and viruses to other computers without their users knowing. 

MALWARE

Malware is the general term used to describe lots of things that want to do unwanted things to your computer. Anti-viruses can stop malware occurring.

